<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" lang="EN" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Acknowledgments</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css" />

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="vii" id="pagebreak_vii"></span>
<section role="doc-acknowledgments" epub:type="acknowledgments">
<a id="ack00001"></a>
<div id="CN">
</div>
<h1 class="fmtitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323790185040017">Acknowledgments</h1>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0010">Any large endeavor of this type cannot be completed without the help of many individuals. First and foremost, we thank the authors of various chapters in previous editions. Although the editors of this edition revised all chapters, the foundations were laid down by the previous contributors. They are acknowledged individually in the relevant chapters. We welcome two new editors—Andrea Deyrup and Abhijit Das—both of whom are seasoned educators. They have helped tremendously in our attempts to simplify the text and improve the illustrations.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0015">We would like to recognize the Undergraduate Medical Educators Section of the Association of Pathology Chairs for their contributions to creating the laboratory test tables. In addition, we would like to express our gratitude to the Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research for allowing publication of reference values for the laboratory test tables from their website <a href="https://www.mayocliniclabs.com">https://www.mayocliniclabs.com</a>, accessed on 9/27/2022. Many additional colleagues have enhanced the text by carefully reviewing the laboratory tests to keep them at the levels appropriate for medical students. They are acknowledged individually with the relevant tables. Others have provided us with photographic gems from their personal collections; they are individually acknowledged in the credits for their contribution(s). Many new images have been taken from Dr. Edward Klatt’s <i>Robbins and Cotran Atlas of Pathology</i> and Dr. Christopher Fletcher’s <i>Histopathology of Tumors</i>. We are grateful to these authors for their generosity in allowing use of their pictures. In addition, we would like to thank the University of Michigan Department of Pathology for permission to use images from their virtual slide box (<a href="https://www.pathology.med.umich.edu/slides">https://www.pathology.med.umich.edu/slides</a>). We would like to thank Dr. Joseph Graves, Jr., for his recommendations about how race and ancestry should be addressed in the text. In addition, we are grateful to those who reviewed content of individual chapters. They include Dr. Julianne Elofson, the Dimmock Center of Roxbury, MA (addiction medicine); Dr. Sarah Wolfe, Duke University (dermatology); Dr. Susan Lester, Brigham and Women’s Hospital (breast pathology); Dr. Thomas Cummings, Duke University (eye and brain pathology); Dr. Jessica Seidelman, Duke University (infectious disease); and Franca Alphin, Duke University (nutrition). For any unintended omissions, we offer our apologies.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0025">Many at Elsevier deserve recognition for their roles in the production of this book. This text was fortunate to be in the hands of Rebecca Gruliow (Director, Content Development), who has been our partner for several editions. Others deserving of our thanks are Jim Merritt (Executive Content Strategist) and Jeremey Bowes (Publisher). We are especially grateful to the entire production team, in particular Dan Fitzgerald, Senior Project Manager, for tolerating our sometimes next to “impossible” demands and for putting up with our idiosyncrasies during the periods of extreme exhaustion that afflict all authors who undertake what seems like an endless task. We are thankful to the entire Elsevier team for sharing our passion for excellence, including Brian Salisbury (Senior Book Designer), Muthu Thangaraj (Senior Graphic Artist), Nijantha Priyadharshini (Graphics Coordinator), Narayanan Ramakrishnan (Graphics Coordinator), and Santhoshkumar Iaraju (Senior Producer, Digital Media). We also thank numerous students and teachers scattered across the globe for raising questions about the clarity of content and serving as the ultimate “copyeditors.” Their efforts reassured us that the book is read seriously by them.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0030">Ventures such as this exact a heavy toll from the families of the authors. We thank them for their tolerance of our absences, both physical and emotional. We are blessed and strengthened by their unconditional support and love and by their sharing with us the belief that our efforts are worthwhile and useful. We are especially grateful to our spouses Raminder Kumar, Ann Abbas, Erin Malone, Tony Williamson, and Kankana Roy who continue to provide steadfast support.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0035">And, finally, we the editors salute each other; our partnership thrives because of a shared vision of excellence in teaching despite differences in opinions and individual styles.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0040">VK</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0045">AKA</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0050">JCA</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0055">ATD</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0060">AD</div>
</section>
</body>
</html>
