<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Pathology Case Studies</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>

<div id="CN"></div>
<h1 class="fmtitle">Case Studies</h1>
<p class="textfl">Welcome to the newly updated Robbins ‘Case Studies Companion. Presented are more than 100 online cases, which use a clinical scenario as a jumping board to discuss the pathophysiology of disease via annotated images, text, and quiz questions. In addition to incorporating contemporary medical knowledge, a strong emphasis has been placed on integration with the online text and other Robbins’ learning resources. Within these cases you will find direct links to relevant sections of the Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Diseases and Robbins Basic Pathology, figures and tables from these books, Targeted Therapy Boxes, and images. Many cases also contain focused and highly informative short videos on select pathophysiologic topics. These videos can also be accessed directly at the link below. Our hope is that these case studies augment the use of the textbook and stimulate a deeper understanding of the pathophysiology of disease. Over the past 20 years, many colleagues (some former faculty members at UT Southwestern Medical School at Dallas and others at University of Chicago) have contributed to these cases, they are gratefully acknowledged below.</p>
<p class="contribname1"><span class="contribname">Vinay Kumar, MBBS, MD</span></p>
<p class="contributors-affiliation1"><i>Editor, Robbins and Cotran Pathologic Basis of Diseases and Robbins Basic Pathology<br />Department of Pathology<br />The University of Chicago<br />Chicago, Illinois</i></p>
<p class="contribname1"><span class="contribname">Alexander J. Gallan, MD</span></p>
<p class="contributors-affiliation1"><i>Editor, Case Studies<br />Department of Pathology<br />The University of Chicago<br />Chicago, Illinois</i></p>
<p class="contribname1"><span class="contribname">Shashidhar Venkatesh Murthy, MD</span></p>
<p class="contributors-affiliation1"><i>Editor, Videos<br />Department of Pathology<br />College of Medicine &amp; Dentistry<br />James Cook University, Australia</i></p>
<p class="textfl">&#x00A0;</p>
<p class="textfl">We would like to acknowledge the many contributors who made these case studies possible:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">Deborah B. Aquino, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Eileen H. Bigio, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Dennis K. Burns, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Marijke R. Canninga-van Dijk, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Dominick C. Cavuoti, DO</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Adi F. Gazdar, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Sefik Tunc Gokaslan, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Ilyssa O. Gordon, MD, PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Jos&#233; Hernandez, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Ihsan Housini, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Steven Kroft, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Martin H. Kroll, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Craig Lampe, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Kevin J. Land, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Edward L. Lee, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Mary Lipscomb, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Linda R. Margraf, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Megan E. McNerney, MD, PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Kyle Molberg, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Sydney Murphrey, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Ajit Paintal, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Louis J. Picker, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Beverly Barton Rogers, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">James Richardson, DVM, PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Thomas E. Rogers, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Ravi Sarode, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Richard H. Scheuermann PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Nancy R. Schneider, MD, PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Suash Sharma, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Mark H. Siegelman, MD, PhD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Pieter J. Slootweg, MD, DMD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Benita J. Stewart</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Frank Vuitch, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Rebecca Wilcox, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Jenson Wong, MD</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">Xin "Joseph" Zhou, MD</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">We would also like to thank the team at Elsevier, particularly Jim Merrit and Rebecca Gruliow, for their unwavering support and dedication in the production of these case studies.</p>
</body>
</html>
