<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" lang="EN" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Online Resources for Instructors and Students</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css" />

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="viii" id="pagebreak_viii"></span>
<section role="doc-chapter" epub:type="chapter">
<a id="htu00001"></a>
<div id="CN">
</div>
<h1 class="fmtitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323790185090019">Online Resources for Instructors and Students</h1>
<section>
<a id="s0010"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0010">Resources for Instructors</h2>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0010">The following resources for instructors are available for use when teaching via Evolve. Contact your local sales representative for more information or go directly to the Evolve website to request access: <a href="https://evolve.elsevier.com">https://evolve.elsevier.com</a>. Note: <i>It may take 1–3 days for account access setup and verification upon initial account setup.</i>
</div>
<section>
<a id="s0015"></a>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0015">Image Collection</h3>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0015">To assist in the classroom, we have made the images available for instructors for teaching purposes. The images are provided in JPEG, PowerPoint®, and PDF versions with labels on/off and may be downloaded for use in lecture presentations.</div>
</section>
<section>
<a id="s0020"></a>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0020">Test Bank</h3>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0020">Instructors can access a complete test bank of over 250 multiple-choice questions for use in teaching.</div>
</section>
</section>
<section>
<a id="s0025"></a>
<h2 class="h1hd" id="cesectitle0025">Resources for Students</h2>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0025">The following resources are available at <a href="http://eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com">eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com</a> to students with purchase of <i>Robbins &amp; Kumar Basic Pathology</i> (11th edition).</div>
<section>
<a id="s0030"></a>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0030">Textbook Online</h3>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0030">The complete textbook is available online at <a href="http://eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com">eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com</a>. The online version is fully searchable and provides all figures from the print book, with enhanced functionality for many, including clickable enlargements and slideshow views of multiple-part images.</div>
</section>
<section>
<a id="s0040"></a>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0040">Clinical Cases</h3>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0040">Students can study over 100 clinical cases available online on <a href="http://eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com">eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com</a>. The clinical cases are designed to enhance clinical pathologic correlations and pathophysiology.</div>
</section>
<section>
<a id="s0045"></a>
<h3 class="h2hd" id="cesectitle0045">Self-Assessment Questions</h3>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0045">Students can test and score themselves with interactive multiple-choice questions linked to chapters online at <a href="http://eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com">eBooks.Health.Elsevier.com</a>.</div>
</section>
</section>
</section>
</body>
</html>
