<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) Therapy: A Technical Knockout (TKO) for Myeloproliferative Disorders</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor (TKI) Therapy: A Technical Knockout (TKO) for Myeloproliferative Disorders</h2>
<p class="textfl">Mutated, hyperactive tyrosine kinases underlie tumor cell growth and survival in myeloproliferative disorders (MPDs). Recognition of that paradigm has spurred the development of therapeutic agents that can selectively inhibit these rogue enzymes. As a class, these tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) offer promise as agents that can reign in unfettered cellular proliferation while leaving normal cellular turnover virtually untouched. The best-known, <i>imatinib</i>, is now the mainstay of therapy for patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML).</p>
<p class="textfl">CML is caused by constitutively active tyrosine signaling. This arises as a consequence of the balanced (9;22) chromosomal translocation that forms the Philadelphia chromosome—fusing genetic fragments from the <i>BCR</i> locus and the <i>ABL</i> oncogene. Basic research spawned by that fundamental cytogenetic observation led to the deciphering of the structure of the BCR-ABL fusion gene and the detection of the kinase activity of the <i>BCR</i>-<i>ABL</i> protein. Subsequent demonstration that BCR-ABL causes leukemia when expressed in the bone marrow cells of mice identified a possible therapeutic bull’s-eye; the screening of small molecule inhibitors of the unbridled BCR-ABL tyrosine kinase led to the discovery of imatinib, a first generation TKI that revolutionized the treatment of CML. As a bit of serendipity, in addition to inhibiting the BCR-ABL fusion protein, imatinib also blocks other tyrosine kinases such as platelet-derived growth factor receptor-<span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span> (PDGFR<span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span>), PDGFR<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>, and KIT. As a consequence, it also is effective in treating certain other rare MPDs and gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) associated with activating mutations in those kinase proteins.</p>
<p class="textfl">The success of TKI therapy for CML forged a new paradigm—and raised hopes—for developing specifically targeted cancer therapies and stimulated new efforts to use TKIs to treat a variety of hematologic malignancies. For example, TKIs have also proven to be effective when combined with conventional chemotherapy in improving outcomes in the subset of acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) that is associated with the presence of a BCR-ABL fusion gene, and clinical trials of JAK2 and FLT3 kinase inhibitors are currently under way in patients with primary myelofibrosis and refractory forms of acute myeloid leukemia, respectively.</p>
<p class="textfl">Of course, there’s also a cautionary note. TKI therapy alone fails to completely eliminate CML in the vast majority of patients because the CML stem cells appears to be intrinsically resistant to TKIs, and so patients need to remain on therapy indefinitely. Furthermore, because of their inherent genomic instability, CML and other cancers driven by active tyrosine kinases sometimes develop resistance to TKIs, often because of the outgrowth of a tumor subclone with a mutation that prevents binding of TKI to its target tyrosine kinase. Fortunately, medical science is ahead of the game: The new mutations are somewhat predictable, and second-generation TKIs that are active against tyrosine kinases with mutations the produce resistance to imatinib are available (i.e., dasatinib and nilotinib).</p>
</body>
</html>
