<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Block of AGEs: Unlinking Glucose from Diabetic Complications</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Block of AGEs: Unlinking Glucose from Diabetic Complications</h2>
<p class="textfl">Roughly a third of diabetic patients will suffer significant cardiovascular complications within 5 to 10 years of their initial diagnosis. Ischemic heart disease, stroke, and peripheral vascular disease not only are major contributors to the morbidity and mortality associated with chronically elevated blood glucose but also account for the lion’s share of the clinical costs.</p>
<p class="textfl">Some of the pathology is attributable to intracellular mayhem. Thus, in cells like neurons and those of the endothelium, where insulin is not required to drive glucose transport, extracellular hyperglycemia causes <i>intracellular</i> hyperglycemia through mass action. Subsequent enzymatic reduction of the elevated intracellular glucose load causes a hyperosmolar state and—by consuming NADPH—a severe oxidative stress. Intracellular hyperglycemia also activates protein kinase C, leading to the production of profibrotic and proangiogenic cytokines.</p>
<p class="textfl">The other major consequence of hyperglycemia is nonenzymatic glycation of intra- and extracellular proteins to generate an irreversibly modified advanced glycation end-product (AGE). By binding to specific vascular wall and inflammatory cell receptors, AGEs are potently procoagulant and pro-inflammatory. The glycation chemistry also causes protein cross-linking that reduces matrix turnover and traps molecules in the interstitium (e.g., proatherogenic low-density lipoproteins).</p>
<p class="textfl">In view of the cellular and chemical effects of hyperglycemia, it is easy to see how the cardiovascular system takes a beating. Both large and small vessels are overall more prone to thrombosis and also to the development of accelerated atherosclerosis; in addition, protein cross-linking (with increased matrix synthesis) engenders changes that result in a stiffened and noncompliant vasculature. Such effects in the coronary circulation render the heart relatively ischemic, and cross-linking of myocardial collagen adversely affects both systolic contraction and diastolic relaxation.</p>
<p class="textfl">The current major therapeutic approach to diabetes focuses on reducing circulating glucose levels, either by improving insulin production or insulin responsiveness or—failing those—by administering exogenous insulin. Although this may control ongoing glycemia, patients are left with the accumulated backlog of AGEs and cross-linked proteins—which are slow to degrade and a cause of persistent cellular dysfunction.</p>
<p class="textfl">Thus, there is substantial enthusiasm for a new class of small-molecule cross-link“breakers” (e.g., aminoguanidine, alagebrium); these can chemically interact with carbonyl intermediates to prevent formation of irreversibly cross-linked adducts. As it turns out, these agents also chelate divalent cations that contribute to cellular oxidation reactions and are potent scavengers of oxidizing sugars and free radicals. By whatever mechanism, in both animal models and early human trials, a number of these molecules have been shown to improve arterial compliance, endothelial function, diastolic relaxation, and myocardial contractility. Although they may not be able to reverse severe end-stage vascular damage, AGE breakers hold substantial promise as agents for adjunctive therapy to limit the long-term cardiovascular complications of glycation-associated cross-linking.</p>
</body>
</html>
