<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Amyloid: Breaking Up Is Hard to Do</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Amyloid: Breaking Up Is Hard to Do</h2>
<p class="textfl">Approximately 15 biochemically distinct proteins have the capacity to fold into relatively insoluble <b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>-pleated sheets to produce morphologically identical-looking <i>amyloid</i> fibrils. There are three major forms of amyloid: AL (immunoglobulin light chains), AA (a protein derived from SAA, an acute-phase reactant made in the liver), and A<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> amyloid, found in the cerebral plaques of Alzheimer disease. All forms are associated with a glycoprotein (the P component) that is essential for fibril deposition. Some of these unfolded molecules are directly toxic; thus, immunoglobulin light chains in myeloma bring myocardial cells to a standstill, and the A<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> amyloid in Alzheimer disease plaques is noxious for neurons. The fibrils in all forms get progressively cross-linked, thereby becoming resistant to degradation. The amyloid thus formed progressively accumulates like so much extracellular linoleum, eventually squeezing out normal parenchyma. Typically, the prognosis for patients affected by amyloid has been exceptionally grim; a diagnosis of cardiac involvement usually translates to death within 1 to 2 years.</p>
<p class="textfl">In all of these entities, the protein aggregation has long been presumed to be relentless and irreversible; at the very best, clinicians could only hope to prevent further accumulation. Accordingly, the traditional approaches to therapy focus on treating the underlying disease—specifically, chemotherapy for myeloma (with AL amyloidosis) and antibiotics for chronic infections or anti- inflammatory agents for autoimmune diseases (with AA amyloidosis).</p>
<p class="textfl">Some breakthroughs appear imminent, however: Building on an improved understanding of protein folding, research has led to production of a number of useful small molecules—so-called “amyloid breakers,” now entering into clinical trial. Some of these interfere with the binding of chaperone proteins such as substance P and apolipoprotein E4 (apoE4), which can propagate the <b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>-sheet content of A<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> peptides and promote pathogenic fibril formation in the brain: CPHPC is a carboxypyrrolidinyl carboxylic acid derivative that binds to the P component and results in its prompt removal from the circulation thus eliminating an important “nucleation factor” for amyloid propagation. Other agents such as tramiprosate inhibit the interactions between interstitial glycosaminoglycans and A<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> that normally stabilize fibril formation; these breakers are sulfated glycosaminoglycan mimetics. Yet another approach is to stabilize native transthyretin tetramers with drugs like tafamadis or diflunisal to prevent the dissociation of monomeric components (e.g., from mutant isoforms) that can then misfold into amyloid fibrils.</p>
<p class="textfl">With these approaches, coupled with earlier detection of amyloid deposits before irreversible damage is done, what previously has been an intractable and inexorable process may eventually become manageable.</p>
</body>
</html>
