<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: HER2 Now: Targeted Therapy for Breast Cancer</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">HER2 Now: Targeted Therapy for Breast Cancer</h2>
<p class="textfl">Breast cancer is the most common malignancy in women, with a lifetime risk of roughly one in eight. It is second only to lung cancer as a cause of female cancer deaths. However, breast cancer is not a monolithic disease; survival statistics (and potential therapies) are associated with different tumor characteristics, including estrogen and progesterone hormone receptor status, gene expression profiles, and certain mutations. In particular, amplification of the HER2 gene leading to overexpression of the HER2 protein (also called Her2/neu or c-ErbB-2) occurs in 20% to 30% of invasive breast cancers and is associated with a poor prognosis. Fortunately, HER2 overexpression also provides a target for an effective therapy.</p>
<p class="textfl">HER2 is one of four related transmembrane epidermal growth factor receptors with intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity. When these receptors form homo- or heterodimers after ligand binding, downstream kinase signaling promotes proliferation through a MAP kinase pathway and blocks apoptosis through AKT-dependent mechanisms. Significantly, the extracellular portion of HER2 can dimerize in the absence of ligand. Consequently, overexpression of HER2 can lead to unabated kinase activity through autodimerization.</p>
<p class="textfl">HER2 overexpression is usually demonstrated by immunohistochemical staining showing increased membrane protein expression and is confirmed by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showing extra copies of the gene. Of interest, although HER2 overexpression occurs with some frequency in breast cancer, it is only rarely seen in other malignancies.</p>
<p class="textfl">Recognition of HER2 overexpression in a subset of breast cancers led to the development of a monoclonal antibody, trastuzumab, that inhibits HER2 signaling. Trastuzumab also may promote Her2 internalization and degradation, or kill tumors through antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity. If there is no Her2 overexpression, the monoclonal antibody provides no benefit. Regardless of the mechanism, patients receiving a course of the monoclonal antibody in addition to standard chemotherapies show almost 50% better response rates, with significantly improved disease-free and overall survival. Indeed, trastuzumab was the <i>first</i> monoclonal antibody to prolong life for patients with epithelial malignancies.</p>
<p class="textfl">Cardiotoxicity is the only significant side effect, developing in about 4% of patients; it is attributable to the role that HER2 signaling apparently plays in myocardial damage repair. The one other limitation of trastuzumab is that it does not cross the blood-brain barrier; the central nervous system thus becomes a sanctuary for metastatic disease. It is hoped that, small molecule inhibitors of HER2 that penetrate the CNS will alleviate this vexing problem and are currently being evaluated in clinical trials.</p>
</body>
</html>
