<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Peripartum Cardiomyopathy: Proscribing Prolactin Promotes Promise</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Peripartum Cardiomyopathy: Proscribing Prolactin Promotes Promise</h2>
<p class="textfl">Pregnancy can be problematic in so many ways. Beyond deep vein thromboses, molar pregnancies, eclampsia, and amniotic fluid embolization, peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM) occurs with a frequency of roughly 1 in 3000 full-term gestations (higher in some ethnic groups); the outcome can be a severely dilated ventricle with a markedly diminished ejection fraction and congestive heart failure. Treating the heart failure of PPCM during pregnancy is tricky because many of the standard mainstays—warfarin (to minimize secondary thromboses) and angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or receptor blockers (for afterload reduction)—are teratogenic. Although a majority of women eventually recover normal left ventricular function, a third or more experience a permanent deficit; there is also an overall 5% to 15% mortality rate, with another 5% to 10% of the patients eventually requiring cardiac transplantation.</p>
<p class="textfl">The pathophysiology of PPCM remains something of a mystery, so prevention and definitive treatment are still evolving:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; During pregnancy, left ventricular myocardium normally undergoes reversible hypertrophy to accommodate physiologic increases in blood volume and cardiac output; in some cases, this is postulated to drive decompensation of a previously injured and marginally compensated heart. Delivery of the fetus should be followed by complete recovery in the vast majority of such cases—but this does not always occur.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Viral myocarditis also can occur during or after pregnancy and can be worse with the relative immunosuppression accompanying gestation. This pathomechanism probably underlies a minority of cases, however, and steroid trials have not shown broad efficacy.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Another theory holds that immune responses to circulating fetal cells that insinuate themselves into maternal myocardium (<i>chimerism</i>) are responsible. Unfortunately, therapy with intravenous immune globulin (to dampen immune responses) or pentoxifylline (to attenuate cytokine production) generally has not proved effective.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Enter new data and a therapeutic target. Prolactin is a pituitary hormone that is markedly upregulated after delivery; it is the hormone responsible for inducing lactation and uterine remodeling. In addition to a number of other properties, the full-length 23-kD protein also protects endothelial cells and promotes angiogenesis. Of note, however, a proteolytically cleaved 16-kD fragment of prolactin has precisely the opposite set of effects, causing endothelial cell apoptosis and disrupting capillary vasculature. Indeed, in animal models, increased production of the 16-kD peptide led to a pronounced dilated cardiomyopathy. Bringing the story full circle, increased oxidative stresses seen in PPCM patients are associated with increased proteolysis of the prolactin precursor and elevated circulating levels of the 16-kD molecule.</p>
<p class="textfl">All of the foregoing suggests that blocking prolactin degradation or reducing its production can ameliorate PPCM. Fortunately, there is already a relatively safe drug on the market that does the latter: <i>Bromocryptine</i> is a dopamine agonist used to reduce prolactin synthesis in the setting of pituitary tumors that cause hyperprolactinemia. Even better, in recent clinical trials in women with PPCM, left ventricular functional recovery was significantly improved with bromocryptine treatment over that with standard heart failure therapy. Although suppression of lactation is a downside to the therapy (with potential physiologic and psychological ramifications), preventing permanent heart failure due to PPCM may be more than a tolerable trade-off.</p>
</body>
</html>
