<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy: When Less Is Maybe More</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy: When Less Is Maybe More</h2>
<p class="textfl">Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked form of striated muscle degeneration affecting roughly 1 in 3500 boys. It has an unremitting course and carries a dismal prognosis, typically with wheelchair dependency by age 12 and death by age 25 due to cardiomyopathy and respiratory complications. The fundamental defect is a mutation in the dystrophin gene that encodes a large structural protein with 79 exons. Frameshift or early-termination mutations in DMD lead to the total absence of functional dystrophin; lack of the dystrophin gives rise to a series of bimolecular changes that culminate in myocyte cell death.</p>
<p class="textfl">Current treatment involves physical therapy and use of orthopedic appliances (e.g., braces) to maintain skeletal function for as long as possible. Anabolic corticosteroids can be a temporizing measure: They increase sarcomeric synthesis and efficiency of contraction. Eventually, however, myofiber loss supervenes. Likewise, <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b><sub>2</sub></span>-agonists increase muscle contraction and hence strength but do not affect disease progression.</p>
<p class="textfl">Whereas total lack of dystrophin leads to DMD, the milder <i>Becker muscular dystrophy</i> (BMD) results from mutations that allow variable expression of smaller truncated dystrophin proteins. These mutations cause a loss of one or more exons. Thus, in BMD, a later onset of muscle changes is characteristic, with a more slowly progressive clinical disease. Recognition of this important difference between the two muscular dystrophies pointed the way to a radical exon-skipping therapeutic approach to treatment in which DMD is essentially converted to a form of BMD.</p>
<p class="textfl">By identifying the relevant mutation in each case of DMD, site-specific antisense oligonucleotides (AONs) can be generated that induce the transcriptional apparatus to “leapfrog” over the defective exon, effectively splicing out the offending sequence. Although the resulting dystrophin is smaller than the full-length protein, it may retain much of its normal function. Remarkably, one such agent, an AON that results in skipping of exon 51, has recently been approved for treatment of of patients with certain DMD mutations. It is hoped that chronic treatment with such agents will convert DMD from an inevitably fatal disease to a chronic disease associated with an improved and prolonged quality of life.</p>
</body>
</html>
