<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Plaque Attack: Untangling Alzheimer Disease</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Plaque Attack: Untangling Alzheimer Disease</h2>
<p class="textfl">Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia, characterized as cognitive decline and short-term memory loss; it is also the sixth most common cause of death in the United States. With more definitive, life-prolonging treatments for cardiovascular and neoplastic disease, in combination with the general aging of the population, the incidence of AD can be expected to increase dramatically in the coming decades. For the United States, this is projected at 1 million additional patients each year, with approximately 15 million afflicted persons by 2050. Clearly, the coming deluge of dementia provides a strong impetus to develop improved therapies; even better would be to check AD in its very earliest stages.</p>
<p class="textfl">Current first-line therapies are intended to ameliorate the progressive cognitive decline of AD. Because memory is regulated through cholinergic pathways, cholinesterase inhibitors (e.g., donepezil, rivastigmine) are prescribed to increase acetylcholine levels. In addition, because glutamate influences long-term potentiation—important for learning and memory—another class of drugs (e.g., memantine) that block <i>N</i>-methyl-<small>d</small>-aspartase (NMDA) receptors, which regulate glutamate levels, has emerged. Unfortunately, these drugs provide at best only modest gains (1% to 5% improvement on various AD assessment scales), with side effects that adversely affect up to half of the patients. Moreover, cholinesterase inhibitors and NMDA antagonists only treat the symptoms and do not attack the underlying causes. With time, ongoing neuronal injury soon overtakes any transient pharmacologic benefit.</p>
<p class="textfl">By comparison, drugs in the pipeline target putative AD pathogenic pathways. The prevailing view is that a transmembrane amyloid precursor protein (APP) is sequentially processed by <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>-(extracellular) and <span class="text-serif"><b>γ</b></span>- (intramembranous) proteases called <i>secretases</i>. These generate a 42-amino-acid peptide (A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>) that forms toxic oligomers, or misfolds into insoluble amyloid plaque. Of note, an alternate pathway involving sequential <span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span>- and <span class="text-serif"><b>γ</b></span>-secretase cleavages does not result in the pathologic A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span> peptide. Besides direct neurotoxicity, A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span> complexes also induce increased phosphorylation of intracellular tau, a protein that stabilizes neuronal microtubules; hyperphosphorylated tau then aggregates into cytoplasmic neurofibrillary tangles, and the microtubule architecture collapses.</p>
<p class="textfl">In light of the central role envisaged for A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>, <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>- and <span class="text-serif"><b>γ</b></span>-secretase <i>inhibitors</i> and <span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span>-secretase <i>stimulators</i> are all reasonable targets. Indeed, <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>-secretase inhibitors (e.g., thiazolidinediones) improve AD scores but may be of limited value because neuregulin-1 (involved in myelination) is a normal <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>-secretase substrate. Unfortunately, <span class="text-serif"><b>γ</b></span>-secretase inhibitors have failed in clinical trials, possibly again in part because of inhibitory effects on Notch receptors, which also are γ-secretase substrates. Other approaches have been designed to inhibit A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span> aggregation (e.g., tramiprosate) or harness the immune system to engulf and degrade plaques and oligomers; anti-A<span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span> monoclonal antibodies such as bapineuzumab and solanezumab may accomplish this. Finally, inhibition of tau phosphorylation (NP-03112) or aggregations are viable strategies currently in clinical trials.</p>
<p class="textfl">Thus, although AD is still a depressingly progressive and still largely intractable disorder, the foregoing advances in the fundamental understanding of its pathogenesis have provided several encouraging strategies for attacking the plaques.</p>
</body>
</html>
