<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Non–Small Cell Lung Cancer: Pathologic Details Can Beat the Devil</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Non–Small Cell Lung Cancer: Pathologic Details Can Beat the Devil</h2>
<p class="textfl">Non–small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) constitute a group of epithelial malignancies that are pathologically and clinically distinct from the neuroendocrine-derived <i>small cell lung carcinomas</i>. Although histologically disparate from one another—they include squamous cell carcinomas, adenocarcinomas (comprising 50% of NSCLCs), and poorly differentiated large cell carcinomas—these tumors all share the depressing characteristic of responding poorly to standard cytotoxic chemotherapy. Indeed, failure to control NSCLC by surgical resection is associated with a miserable prognosis. The 5-year survival rate with even limited (less than 3 cm), localized stage I disease is only 50%; in the presence of distant metastases, less than 1% of patients survive to 5 years.</p>
<p class="textfl">The picture is brightening, however, with the recognition that subsets of NSCLCs carry specific oncogenic mutations in potentially targetable molecules.</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Roughly 10% of adenocarcinomas in non-Asian persons (and roughly 50% of adenocarcinomas in Asian populations!) express constitutively activating mutations in epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). EGFR is upstream of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase, Akt, and Janus kinase pathways, and activation leads to augmented cell proliferation. Of interest, in whites, these activating mutations tend to occur in adenocarcinomas arising in female patients who have never smoked; thus, the epidemiology strongly suggests a pathogenesis for such tumors distinct from that for other, smoking-related lung cancers. Moreover, EGFR mutant status strongly predicts improved progression-free survival with the administration of receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as gefitinib or erlotinib.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Another, nonoverlapping subset of adenocarcinomas (roughly 5%) have acquired a mutant fusion protein (EML-ALK) that combines portions of the echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) molecules. The resultant chimeric protein is a constitutively activated kinase that drives cellular proliferation along MAP kinase pathways. Of importance, the kinase inhibitor crizotinib significantly improves patient survival when tumors contain the EML-ALK fusion protein.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Consequently, a better appreciation for the molecular underpinnings of NSCLC potentially allows exquisitely targeted therapy. To take advantage of such Achilles’ heels, however, current state-of-the-art pathologic diagnosis mandates careful ancillary evaluation in any new case. If the pathologist can identify mutant EGFR (by sequencing of tumor DNA), increased EGFR expression (by immunohistochemical analysis), or EML-ALK fusion rearrangement (by fluorescence in situ hybridization [FISH]), the oncologist has some improved and more selective weapons to bring to bear.</p>
</body>
</html>
