<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Biofilm: We’ve Been Slimed</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Biofilm: We’ve Been Slimed</h2>
<p class="textfl">Bacteria exist either as single-celled “planktonic” free-floating organisms or as <i>biofilms</i>—complex adherent multicellular communities in a self-produced exopolysaccharide matrix “slime.” Biofilms occur anywhere that liquids and solids meet; good examples are the slippery surface of a boulder in a stream and the grunge that accumulates in a waste pipe. Significantly, roughly 80% of all human infections—including wound infections, catheter infections, endocarditis, urinary tract infections, and infections of implanted devices—are caused by biofilms. The numbers translate into almost 100,000 biofilm-related deaths each year in the United States.</p>
<p class="textfl">The cell-cell interactions of bacteria in biofilms are regulated by the microbial production of quorum-sensing proteins that bind to specific receptors and coordinate the subsequent communal behavior. Up to 15% of the microbial genome is differentially regulated in the free versus biofilm forms of the same microorganism (approximately half are activated and the other half repressed). As a consequence of these genetic differences, bacteria in biofilms are over <i>1000 times</i> more resistant to antimicrobial agents than their planktonic counterparts. This is ascribed to a less permeable microenvironment (slime), decreased microbial growth rates with a small population of “persister” cells, and upregulation of stress responses, in addition to a more efficient transfer of antimicrobial resistance genes. Also noteworthy (and disquieting) is that bacteria cultures in hospital microbiology labs—forming the basis for standard antibiotic sensitivity analysis—are more akin to planktonic bacteria than they are to biofilm.</p>
<p class="textfl">Clearly, a biofilm infection poses a significant problem. Not only is the microbe hunkered down in a difficult-to-penetrate slime, and has upregulated genes that allow it to resist antimicrobial eradication, but the host response is likely to be prolonged, with significant potential “innocent bystander” damage. At present, the time-honored approach is to remove whatever surface is harboring the biofilm, followed by aggressive antibiotic treatment. Although this is reasonable for a catheter-based infection, it is substantially more problematic for an implanted heart valve or orthopedic prosthesis.</p>
<p class="textfl">Accordingly, although not yet widely utilized, effective disruption of bacterial biofilms is a more-than-worthy therapeutic goal. A number of new therapies are under active (and even frenzied) investigation in animal models:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Silver-coating (silver has broad antimicrobial activity) or antibiotic impregnation of catheters is of some benefit in frustrating the initial colonization that precedes biofilm formation.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Applied electric currents or ultrasound vibration approaches also augment antibiotic therapies by partially disrupting biofilm colonies, and by increasing bacterial membrane permeability.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; More sophisticated tactics involve antisense molecules that silence the bacterial genes that are upregulated in biofilms, or synthetic decoy molecules that interfere with the quorum-sensing apparatus.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Perhaps most exciting is the possibility that bacteriophage viruses can be conscripted to the battle; besides being potent and selective bacterial adversaries, these agents can contribute to the normal regulation of biofilms by producing polysaccharidases that hydrolyze slime.</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
