<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Aspirin and NSAIDs: Relief More Than Pain</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Aspirin and NSAIDs: Relief More Than Pain</h2>
<p class="textfl">Years of epidemiologic and interventional study have convincingly demonstrated that routine use of aspirin or other cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors reduces the risk of developing colorectal carcinoma in the general population. In patients with familial adenomatous polyposis, who have a markedly increased risk of colon cancer due to <i>APC</i> mutations, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) objectively reduce the size and number of <i>existing</i> polyps, thereby mediating primary colon cancer <i>chemoprevention</i>. In murine models involving human gene—like <i>APC</i> mutations, concurrent COX-1 or COX-2 deficiency reduces the incidence of malignancy by 80%. NSAIDs also have been shown to decrease cancer-specific mortality after diagnosis, particularly for patients with tumors that overexpress the COX-2 isoform (90% of colorectal cancers). This finding suggests that beyond inducing colon cancers, COX activity (or some other effect mitigated by NSAIDs) also promotes tumor progression.</p>
<p class="textfl">Many of the chemopreventive and chemotherapeutic effects of NSAIDs are attributable to direct COX inhibition. This makes sense in light of the fact that the COX-driven generation of prostaglandin E<sub>2</sub> and thromboxane A<sub>2</sub> can be tumorigenic, because these pro-inflammatory mediators also can influence epithelial proliferation, angiogenesis, and metastatic potential. Thus, it’s hardly surprising that the irreversible nonselective COX inhibitor aspirin, as well as the selective and reversible COX-2 inhibitors (e.g., celecoxib), provides therapeutic efficacy. Administration of <span class="text-serif"><b>ω</b></span>3-polyunsaturated fatty acids (eicosapentaenoic acid), which are metabolized by COX to <i>anti-inflammatory</i> resolvins (at the expense of fewer pro-inflammatory metabolites), also is beneficial.</p>
<p class="textfl">On the other hand, some of the NSAID benefits appear to be COX-independent. Celecoxib analogues or sulfone metabolites of sulindac that do not inhibit COX-1 or -2 also are effective in preventing tumors in mouse models. Thus, aspirin—and to a lesser extent the other NSAIDs—can inhibit NF<span class="text-serif"><b>κ</b></span>B activation, promote <span class="text-serif"><b>β</b></span>-catenin degradation, and downregulate survivin, all leading to the apoptosis of neoplastic cells. Although these actions of aspirin and NSAIDs provide plausible explanation of their antineoplastic activity, they also raise the question of why this efficacy is restricted to colonic tumors.</p>
<p class="textfl">Regardless of the actual mechanisms involved, it is only slightly ironic that such an old (and inexpensive) drug like aspirin can have such a salubrious payoff. Certainly in the setting of previous malignancy or existing high-risk <i>APC</i> mutations, the small risk of gastrointestinal hemorrhage from aspirin is far outweighed by the benefits. Moreover, if the true beneficial pathways <i>can be</i> elucidated, a drug lacking the existing NSAID side effects can’t be far behind.</p>
</body>
</html>
