<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Managing Marfan: It’s Just Another (TGF)-βrick in the Wall</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Managing Marfan: It’s Just Another (TGF)-<span class="text-serif lowercase">β</span>rick in the Wall</h2>
<p class="textfl">Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominant disorder caused by mutations in the <i>FBN1</i> gene that lead to defective synthesis of fibrillin, a major glycoprotein constituent of connective tissues. As a consequence, affected patients have a number of defects throughout the body, including joint laxity, increased growth of appendageal bones, and lens subluxation. The clinically most important manifestation of Marfan’s, however, is a propensity for aortic aneurysm formation, secondary to defective matrix synthesis in the aortic media. The markedly diminished wall integrity contributes to mortality through acute spontaneous aortic dissections.</p>
<p class="textfl">Although fibrillin originally was thought to be only a scaffolding protein that provided a passive framework for matrix synthesis, it turns out to be critical for the sequestration of transforming growth factor-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> (TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>), an important signaling molecule that regulates smooth muscle and fibroblast growth and synthetic repertoires. Too little fibrillin in the matrix means that too much free TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> is available to interact with its receptor (TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>R) on medial mesenchymal cells. As a result, the normally elastic aortic wall is replaced by structurally weak glycosaminoglycans and other connective elements that cannot withstand the rigors of pulsatile systolic pressures. With time, pathologic vascular wall remodeling leads to formation of aneurysms that are at risk for catastrophic ruptures.</p>
<p class="textfl">In view of these specific mechanisms, TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>R blockade has become an attractive target.&#160;Additionally, in some rare inherited disorders, the formation of aortic aneurysms (and dissections) is linked to mutant forms of the TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b>R associated with exuberant TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> signaling. Thus, antagonists of the TGF-<b><span class="text-serif">β</span></b> pathway like losartan may help patients with such disorders as well.&#160;As a result, drugs that fortuitously target TGF-β such as losartan are currently being evaluated in clinical trials.</p>
</body>
</html>
