<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Hep to Go: Beyond Ribavirin and Interferon for Hepatitis C</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Hep to Go: Beyond Ribavirin and Interferon for Hepatitis C</h2>
<p class="textfl">Hepatitis C (“hep C”) infections result in chronic disease in more than 80% of affected persons, of whom 20% to 30% experience progression to cirrhosis. Consequently, hepatitis C is the most common cause of chronic liver disease in the United States and is the number-one indication for liver transplantation. Even worse, 5% of chronically infected patients develop hepatocellular carcinoma.</p>
<p class="textfl">At the time of the initial infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV), most patients do not mount a sufficiently robust initial immune response to clear the RNA virus, and with a low-fidelity viral polymerase, HCV acquires new mutations at a prodigious rate. Moreover, HCV makes a protease that can cleave adaptor molecules, and its core protein inhibits intracellular kinase signaling, both of which normally drive an antiviral response.</p>
<p class="textfl">Preventing the initial infection is clearly the best way to avoid the sequelae, but the search for a vaccine has been impeded by poorly immunogenic envelope proteins and a heterogeneous mixture of viral subspecies with minimal antigenic overlap. Accordingly, the current clinical approach focuses on frustrating viral replication and augmenting the host innate response:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Ribavirin is a nucleoside analogue that the viral polymerase incorporates into the viral genome, thereby promoting “lethal” mutagenesis; it can pair with cytidine and uridine (mimicking guanine and adenine bases), leading to a theoretical “error catastrophe.” Ribavirin also can inhibit cellular inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase, resulting in guanosine triphosphate (GTP) depletion and inhibition of viral replication.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Interferon-<span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span> is a cytokine that drives a number of innate immune responses that assist in viral eradication by improved natural killer cell activity and by inhibition of HCV replication.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Unfortunately, the standard two-drug cocktail is expensive ($20,000 for the typical 48-week course) and has many untoward side effects such as cytopenias, fatigue, and depression. In addition, it is effective in only about 40% of patients. Much effort, therefore, is being devoted to the development of next-generation therapies such as protease inhibitors. These therapies are based on the current understanding of the molecular basis of viral replication.</p>
<p class="textfl">After infection, the HCV genome initially is translated as a single long polyprotein that has to be cleaved by a specific viral serine protease (NS3) for virus assembly to occur. Consequently, use of selective protease inhibitors constitutes an attractive form of adjunctive therapy. Indeed, when added to interferon and ribavirin, protease inhibitors such as telaprevir and boceprevir greatly reduce viral replication in almost 70% of cases, and in many patients, HCV is undetectable within 12 to 24 weeks. Such triple-compound regimens are likely to become the standard of care within a short period of time; moreover, in a fashion analogous to that for the highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, triple-drug cocktails also may squelch HCV infections—from so many different directions—that they never get the chance to mutate.</p>
</body>
</html>
