<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Statins: Not Just About Cholesterol Anymore</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Statins: Not Just About Cholesterol Anymore</h2>
<p class="textfl">The liver controls plasma cholesterol levels through three interrelated mechanisms:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Hepatocytes clear cholesterol-rich low-density lipoprotein (LDL) from the plasma through cell surface LDL receptors, which release cholesterol into the cytoplasm.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Intracellular cholesterol in turn negatively regulates the activity of steroid regulatory element–binding protein-1 (SREBP-1), a cholesterol-sensitive transcription factor that normally enhances the expression of LDL receptors and the enzyme 3-hydroxymethyl-3-glutaryl (HMG)-CoA (HMG-CoA) reductase.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; HMG-CoA reductase carries out the rate-limiting step in cholesterol synthesis; thus, when intracellular cholesterol levels fall, SREBP-1 drives the synthesis of HMG-CoA reductase, and cholesterol synthesis rises.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Statins belong to a widely used class of drugs that reduce cholesterol synthesis by inhibiting HMG-CoA reductase. Through the feedback loops just outlined, this increases the activity of SREBP-1 and the synthesis of LDL receptors, leading to increased clearance of LDL cholesterol from the plasma. Statins typically yield 10% to 50% reduction in plasma LDL. This translates into up to 60% reduction in cardiac events and 20% reduction in stroke in persons deemed to be at risk due to elevated levels of LDL cholesterol.</p>
<p class="textfl">Of note, however, the cardiovascular benefits of statins consistently exceed the benefits anticipated on the basis of the extent of cholesterol lowering. For example, hypercholesterolemia has no statistically significant association with stroke, yet clinical studies have consistently shown that statin treatment reduces the incidence of stroke. Moreover, recent studies showed that <i>stains reduce the incidence of clinically significant cardiovascular disease even in individuals with normal or very low cholesterols levels</i>.</p>
<p class="textfl">The foregoing observations suggest that protective mechanisms other than cholesterol reduction are afoot. As it turns out, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors also block the formation of lipid precursors involved in the prenylation of a number of important intracellular proteins. Thus, the functions of both Ras (a key signaling molecule) and Rab (a regulator of membrane protein transport) depend on prenylation, which promotes the membrane association of these proteins. Through these and other less well-characterized “off-cholesterol” mechanisms, statins have a number of beneficial effects, including increased expression of the transcription factor KLF-2, which has anti-inflammatory effects in T cells and endothelial cells. Based on the important role in inflammation in atherosclerosis, it is easy to imagine how these effects of statins could contribute to a lowering of risk for cardiovascular events.</p>
<p class="textfl">Statin therapy is not without side effects: A low incidence of rhabdomyolysis (severe autocatabolism of skeletal muscle) has been reported, along with hepatic metabolic derangements. These effects also are independent of its cholesterol-lowering activities and may be related to the activation of ubiquitin and proteasome degradation pathways.</p>
</body>
</html>
