<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Melanoma: Bright Hopes for a Dark Tumor</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Melanoma: Bright Hopes for a Dark Tumor</h2>
<p class="textfl">Metastatic melanoma is a lethal disease. If a lesion cannot be recognized at a stage at which primary resection is adequate for control, the median survival is 7 months—even less if more than a single metastasis is present. As a consequence, melanoma is responsible for greater than three quarters of the mortality associated with skin cancers, amounting to roughly 9000 deaths annually in the United States and 48,000 worldwide. A distressing reality is that even small and apparently completely excised lesions also can harbor occult metastases at the time of original resection; in the absence of good adjuvant prophylaxis, late recurrence is always a concern.</p>
<p class="textfl">Fortunately, the armamentarium available to fight back is growing, using a combination of augmented immunity and new chemotherapeutic agents that disrupt molecular pathways involved in proliferation of melanomas.</p>
<p class="textfl">In the former category, topical imiquimod at the site of primary excision can activate cutaneous immune cells via Toll-like receptor 7, leading to local elaboration of a variety of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Systemically, immunomodulation is accomplished through interferon or interleukin-2 therapies, although these have been effective in only a small subset of patients. More encouraging, the introduction of ipilimumab—anti-CTLA-4 (cytotoxic T lymphocyte—associated antigen 4) monoclonal antibodies—has improved survival in metastatic melanoma by 20%, putatively by blocking the negative regulation of cytotoxic T cells through this surface receptor. Unfortunately, not only do these therapies have significant adverse side effects, but they can be very expensive and only rarely effect a cure.</p>
<p class="textfl">Recent advances have greatly improved current understanding of the mutations that drive melanoma growth. These have been instrumental in developing targeted therapies. Melanoma cells seem to be “addicted”to MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathways for growth, maintenance, drug resistance, and progression. Indeed, 40% to 60% of melanomas (and 7% to 8% of all cancers) carry activating mutations in the B-Raf serine-threonine protein kinase that is a component of the MAPK signaling; a remarkable <i>90%</i> of these mutations involve a specific substitution of glutamic acid for valine at amino acid 600 (V600E). The high prevalence of B-Raf V600E in melanomas has allowed the development of kinase inhibitors specific for the mutant enzyme. In trials of two such inhibitors, vemurafenib and dabrafenib, complete or partial regression was observed in the vast majority of tumors carrying the mutated B-Raf, with almost double the duration of progression-free survival.</p>
<p class="textfl">Still, this improvement does not equal a cure, and tumors eventually develop resistance through secondary N-Ras mutations, upregulation of other surface receptor tyrosine kinases, or B-Raf truncations. The success of these approaches, however, points to an eventually much brighter prognosis for such a dark malignancy.</p>
</body>
</html>
