<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: Bigger Is Not Necessarily Better</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Benign Prostatic Hyperplasia: Bigger Is Not Necessarily Better</h2>
<p class="textfl">Like death and taxes, progressive prostatic enlargement is a near certainty in aging males (and not just humans—older male rats, rabbits, and dogs also are susceptible). Affecting 20% of men by age 40, the incidence of so-called <i>benign</i> <i>prostatic hypertrophy</i> (BPH) rises to 70% by age 60 and surpasses 90% by age 80. Moderate to severe symptoms occur in roughly a third of those so afflicted, resulting from compression of the prostatic urethra by the enlarged prostate. Patients classically experience urinary frequency, nocturia, difficulty in starting or stopping the urinary stream, and dysuria and are at a greater risk for urinary tract infections. In some cases, the presenting manifestation is acute urinary retention.</p>
<p class="textfl">The key molecule in the pathogenesis of BPH is 5<span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span>-reductase (5AR) type 2. It converts circulating testosterone to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). DHT, in turn, forms a tight complex with nuclear androgen receptors within stromal and epithelial cells, driving the elaboration of a host of growth factors and their receptors. This results in proliferation of stromal as well as glandular cells and inhibition of apoptosis. The problem posed by prostatic enlargement is compounded by an increase in smooth muscle tone in the prostate stroma, urethra, and bladder neck.</p>
<p class="textfl">BPH is treated by surgical and medical therapies:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP) or updated variations on that theme (using lasers, microwaves, radiofrequency energy, or high-intensity ultrasound) remain the surgical gold standard. These modalities work by physically removing or otherwise ablating tissue adjacent to the urethra.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Because of the increased smooth muscle tone, drugs that relax smooth muscle contraction, such as <span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span>-adrenergic receptor antagonists, also are beneficial. Agents that act selectively on the <span class="text-serif"><b>α</b></span><sub>1A</sub> receptor (expressed in the prostate, urethra, and bladder, but not elsewhere), such as tamsulosin, improve urinary flow by relaxing the smooth muscles, with minimal side effects.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Several, more elegant approaches to treating BPH are currently available. One involves blocking the production of DHT with inhibitors of 5AR such as finasteride and dutasteride. Without DHT, the prostatic stroma and epithelium lose their proliferative signals and even involute as antiapoptotic signals are removed. As an extra benefit, some 5AR inhibitors that block the type 1 enzyme (found in skin and liver) also can be effective for the treatment of alopecia (hair loss)—truly an example of better living through chemistry!&#160;A second approach involves the use of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors such as Tadalafil, which also relaxes smooth muscle by increasing cyclic GMP levels. As an added benefit, it also is an effective treatment for erectile dysfunction, potentially permitting two problems of male aging to be treated with a single pill.</p>
</body>
</html>
