<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Extracorporeal Photopheresis: Seeing the Light on Graft-versus-Host Disease</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Extracorporeal Photopheresis: Seeing the Light on Graft-versus-Host Disease</h2>
<p class="textfl">Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation after radiochemotherapy is an important treatment modality for certain leukemias and lymphomas, and graft-versus-<i>tumor</i> effect underlies some of its therapeutic efficacy. Unfortunately, allogeneic transplantation also carries a significant—and potentially life-threatening—risk of graft-versus-<i>host</i>-disease (GVHD). Thus, donor lymphocytes have the capacity to attack a variety of host tissues, leading to intractable diarrhea, pulmonary fibrosis, cutaneous inflammation, hepatobiliary disease, and/or musculoskeletal injury.</p>
<p class="textfl">Older approaches to control or prevent GVHD include the following:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Precise DNA sequence–based donor and host human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching. Except for transplantation between identical twins, however, mismatch of minor HLA antigens is inevitable, even with sibling transplants.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. This modality is not favored currently because graft-versus-tumor effect is lost.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Depletion of donor T cells with monoclonal antibodies to CD3 or other T cell markers. Unfortunately, this leads to a reduced graft-versus-tumor effect, poorer overall marrow engraftment, and much more frequent development of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated B cell tumors, which can be fatal.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Administration of immunosuppressive drugs. Such regimens constitute a mainstay of current efforts to control GVHD but carry the usual downside of opportunistic infections and EBV-related malignancies.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">When these strategies fail, transplant physicians are increasingly turning to the light—that is, to the use of extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) to treat white blood cells outside of the body and then return them to the host.</p>
<p class="textfl">ECP uses 8-methoxypsoralen (8MP), a plant compound that when activated by sunlight cross-links DNA to cause apoptosis of cells. Psoralens have been used since the time of the Pharaohs for a variety of dermatologic conditions; they are the “P” in PUVA (psoralen plus ultraviolet A [UV-A] light) therapy for psoriasis. In ECP, a continuous centrifugal apheresis of blood allows white cells to be separated and externally treated with low doses of 8MP and visible-wavelength light; these are then returned to the patient during the same pheresis session. The ECP approach appears to work not so much by killing proliferating lymphocytes (as had been thought originally) but by generation of regulatory T cells. This may occur by dendritic cell–mediated processing and presentation of the activated and apoptotic cells. The effect is remarkably antigen-specific—there is generally only suppression of the GVHD-causing clones and not a global immunosuppression. The same approach also is effective in treating cutaneous T cell lymphomas and for preventing rejection in solid organ transplants; clinicians are even beginning to see the ECP light for some autoimmune disorders such as Crohn disease and scleroderma!</p>
</body>
</html>
