<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Shooting for PAR: Hitting a Hole-in-One…or a Bogey?</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Shooting for PAR: Hitting a Hole-in-One…or a Bogey?</h2>
<p class="textfl">Platelet activation and aggregation play an important role in thrombogenesis, as well as atherogenesis. Thus, platelet activation is a critical component of the pathogenesis of diseases such as myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular stroke. Based on the central importance of platelets, the current standard of preventive care for patients with a previous history of atherothrombotic diseases involves a two-pronged antiplatelet approach:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Aspirin blocks platelet thromboxane A<sub>2</sub> (TxA<sub>2</sub>) synthesis by irreversibly inhibiting cyclooxygenase. TxA<sub>2</sub> is a potent mediator of platelet aggregation. Although endothelial cyclooxygenase is likewise inhibited by aspirin—with resulting loss of prostacyclin (i.e., prostaglandin I<sub>2</sub> [PGI<sub>2</sub>]) synthesis—the effect on the antithrombotic PGI2 production is transient, because endothelial cells continuously synthesize new cyclooxygenase.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Thienopyridine (e.g., clopidogrel) blockade of platelet adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptors (also called P2Y<sub>12</sub>). Because ADP also is a major trigger for platelet activation and aggregation, receptor blockade has been shown to be a potent adjunct for preventing recurrent atherothrombosis.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Combined blockade of TxA<sub>2</sub> and ADP has well-documented benefits in reducing the risk of recurrent infarction or stroke. This strategy, however, leaves completely unimpeded the activation of platelets by <i>thrombin</i>—probably the most potent pathway that can promote platelet aggregation. Thrombin-mediated activation constitutes an important reason why patients on aspirin and thienopyridines can nevertheless experience recurrent thrombotic events.</p>
<p class="textfl">Besides generating fibrin from fibrinogen, thrombin activates platelets via the PAR-1 and PAR-4 <b>p</b>rotease-<b>a</b>ctivated <b>r</b>eceptors (PARs) that are cleaved by proteases to make a tethered ligand that can efficiently stimulate the digested receptor. Although other PARs can participate in inflammation and pain pathways, PAR-1 is the major thrombin receptor on platelets; hence, it causes prompt and profound platelet activation.</p>
<p class="textfl">Thus, PAR-1–specific blockade (e.g., with vorapaxar) significantly reduces recurrent atherothrombotic events such as myocardial infarction—even in patients already receiving aspirin and clopidogrel. Fortunately, PAR-1 blockade does not affect the normal coagulation cascade involving thrombin. As might also be anticipated, however, such PAR-1 antagonism is associated with an increased risk of bleeding, including cerebral hemorrhage. Consequently, although going for PAR might seem like a clear winner, this approach will need to be carefully evaluated for individual patients in light of some of the potential (hemorrhagic) traps.</p>
<p class="textfl">Yet another mechanism of platelet aggregation is cross-linking through their cell surface glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptors by fibrinogen. Accordingly, antagonists (e.g., abciximab, eptifibatide, tirofiban) of these glycoprotein receptors also can be used as powerful antiplatelet agents. These agents can be administered only intravenously, however, so they typically are used for selected clinical indications in the hospital setting (e.g., to prevent acute vascular stent thrombosis), and not for widespread outpatient atherothrombosis prevention.</p>
</body>
</html>
