<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Polycystic Kidney Disease: A Failure to Communicate</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Polycystic Kidney Disease: A Failure to Communicate</h2>
<p class="textfl">Autosomal dominant adult polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) affects 0.1% to 0.4% of the population and underlies 5% to 10% of all cases of end-stage renal disease. At present, the therapeutic options for patients with end-stage disease are the same as for patients with other kidney diseases: either chronic dialysis or transplantation.</p>
<p class="textfl">ADPKD results from mutations in <i>PKD1</i> and <i>PKD2</i>, genes that code for the polycystin-1 and -2 proteins, respectively.</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Polycystin-1 and -2 are expressed by the epithelial cells of the distal nephron and the collecting ducts, as well as by bile duct epithelium and endothelial cells (possibly explaining the hepatic cysts and vascular aneurysms that also occur in ADPKD).</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Polycystin-1 (PC-1) is part of the multi-subunit <i>primary cilium</i>, a nonmotile hairlike organelle that projects from the apical face of the epithelium and senses mechanical forces such as shear generated by fluid movements. When stimulated, the primary cilium triggers a series of events that increase cytoplasmic calcium.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Polycystin-2 (PC-2) is a calcium channel; it is another component of the primary cilium complex and also is found in the endoplasmic reticulum. PC-2 regulates the uptake of calcium from the extracellular milieu and from intracellular stores in the endoplasmic reticulum.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">In general, the mutations responsible for ADPKD decrease PC-1 or PC-2 function, resulting in abnormally low intracellular calcium levels. This effect has several consequences, but among the most important is a higher level of intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP), which stimulates epithelial proliferation and activates the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), leading to increased fluid secretion. Tubular epithelium proliferation and increased fluid secretion underlies the formation of cysts, which eventually replace the normal parenchyma.</p>
<p class="textfl">Fortunately, this pathogenic pathway also suggests therapeutic opportunities. Current attention is focused on modulating intracellular cAMP levels through blockade of the vasopressin pathway. Vasopressin (also known as antidiuretic hormone) binds to the V2 receptor and promotes water absorption in the collecting duct epithelium by stimulating adenyl cyclase—the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of cAMP. Selective V2 receptor antagonists such as tolvaptan decrease intracellular cAMP and reduce proliferation and fluid secretion, while avoiding complications related to antagonism of V1 receptors (which regulate heart rate and blood pressure). V2 antagonists are now in phase three clinical trials; it is hoped that these agents will slow or prevent the currently inexorable progression of ADPKD.</p>
</body>
</html>
