<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<title>Targeted Therapy: Vitamin D: Lighting the Way Beyond Calcium Homeostasis</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../../Style/media.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<script src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="h1hd">Vitamin D: Lighting the Way Beyond Calcium Homeostasis</h2>
<p class="textfl">The major function of vitamin D is to facilitate the absorption and metabolism of calcium to support activities such as neuromuscular transmission and bone mineralization. Thus, the minimum daily requirement of 200 to 400 international units (IU), corresponding to 5 to 10 <span class="text-serif">μ</span>g, was established as the amount necessary to prevent rickets and osteomalacia. However, that amount may be insufficient to sustain the other important activities supported by vitamin D.</p>
<p class="textfl">The major source (90%) of vitamin D in humans is the ultraviolet B–driven conversion of endogenously synthesized 7-dehydrocholesterol precursors to cholecalciferol (vitamin D<sub>3</sub>). This is an important factoid, because in northern latitudes or in dark-skinned persons (melanin blocks the relevant light wavelengths)—or in cloistered medical students, children with thick coats of sunscreen, or heavily veiled women—supplementary dietary needs may be greater. The metabolism of vitamin D involves the following steps:</p>
<ul>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; Vitamin D<sub>3</sub> is hydroxylated to its 25-hydroxy form through the cytochrome P-450; this is subsequently converted by renal tubular cells to 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub>, the most active form. Further 24-hydroxylation inactivates the molecule.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; 1,25-Dihydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub> is essentially a steroid hormone; it acts by binding an intracellular nuclear vitamin D receptor (VDR), which then forms heterodimers with the retinoid X receptor (RXR). These vitamin D–VDR–RXR complexes bind to vitamin D response elements and drive protein transcription.</li>
<li class="b1bulllist">&#8226; 1,25-Dihydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub> also can bind <i>plasma membrane</i> vitamin D receptors that directly activate protein kinase C and open calcium channels.</li>
</ul>
<p class="textfl">Virtually all cells—not just those involved in calcium homeostasis—express VDR. Of interest, macrophages, keratinocytes, and various epithelia (breast, colon, and prostate) can synthesize 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub>. In macrophages, activation of Toll-like receptors increases the synthesis of both VDR and 1,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub>, inducing the production of antimicrobial peptides such as cathelicidins, thus improving innate immunity. In all, more than 200 additional genes are regulated by vitamin D—including those that modulate proliferation, apoptosis, and angiogenesis. Epidemiologic data quite persuasively demonstrate that low 1,25-hydroxy-vitamin D<sub>3</sub> levels correlate with a 30% to 50% greater incidence of colon, prostate, and breast cancers. Of interest, the vitamin D–inactivating 24-hydroxylase enzyme (CYP24A1) often is overexpressed in tumor cells. As a result of multiple epidemiologic studies, there is a movement to increase the daily minimal supplementation of vitamin D to greater than 1000 IU, especially in the winter in northern latitudes. Moreover, drugs that target the 24-hydroxylase CYP24A1 show promise in the therapy of certain epithelial malignancies. Clearly, ultraviolet light exposure should be balanced by concerns regarding cutaneous malignancy, and oral dosing should not be overdone lest vitamin D toxicity (and hypercalcemia) result. Overall, however, these considerations give all of us an excuse to spend more time in the sun and perhaps provide a greater impetus for selected vitamin supplementation. </p>
</body>
</html>
