<!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xmlns:sa="http://www.elsevier.com/xml/common/struct-aff/dtd" lang="EN" xml:lang="en">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="default-style" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Preface</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../Style/Elsevier_eBook.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" media="only screen" href="../../Style/media.css" />

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/common.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../widgets/common_assets/css/variables.css" />
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/mathjax/tex-mml-chtml.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../widgets/common_assets/scripts/common.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
<span role="doc-pagebreak" epub:type="pagebreak" aria-label="vi" id="pagebreak_vi"></span>
<section role="doc-preface" epub:type="preface">
<a id="pre00001"></a>
<div id="CN">
</div>
<h1 class="fmtitle" epub:type="title" id="B9780323790185050013">Preface</h1>
<div class="para_fl" id="p0010">Stanley Robbins conceived of <i>Basic Pathology</i> as a simple, clinically oriented textbook, published first in 1971. It had two authors: Robbins and Angell. Over the ensuing 50 years, driven by the goal of keeping the book up to date, most of the chapters were written by specialists. This has had the gradual (and inevitable) effect of making the book more complex. After careful thought, we decided a course correction was required. The eleventh edition reflects this in several ways:</div>
<div>
<ol id="ulist0010">
<li class="bulllist" id="p0015">
<a id="u0010"></a>• All chapters have been written and revised by the editors themselves.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="p0020">
<a id="u0015"></a>• Over 150 new diagrams created by Dr. Abhijit Das (who joins us as an editor) have been added to illustrate complex disease mechanisms.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="p0025">
<a id="u0020"></a>• To make <i>Basic Pathology</i> more useful for future physicians, tables listing commonly used laboratory tests with their pathophysiology and clinical relevance have been added to each chapter, an effort spearheaded by Dr. Andrea Deyrup, who has joined the editorial team.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="p0030">
<a id="u0025"></a>• As an additional “tool” to help students focus on the fundamentals, we have created a Rapid Review section at the end of each chapter designed to provide key “take home” messages.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="p0035">
<a id="u0030"></a>• Many new micrographs have been added to better illustrate disease processes. Additional figures, beyond those that appear in the text, have been added as eFigures that can be accessed in the online version of the textbook.</li>
<li class="bulllist" id="p0040">
<a id="u0035"></a>• Another major change has been to address the issue of health disparities and to reframe their relationship to socioeconomic factors and socially defined race. We engaged a consultant with expertise on the role of race in medicine, Dr. Joseph L. Graves, Jr., in this effort and have included a section on health disparities in <a href="../B9780323790185000072/CH0007_235-273_B9780323790185000072.xhtml#c0007">Chapter 7</a>. Wherever possible, photographs of skin lesions in both lightly and more darkly pigmented skin have been included to reflect the range of clinical presentations, and illustrations that depict the human body have been made color neutral.</li>
</ol>
</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0045">Although we have entered the “omics” era, the time-honored tools of gross and microscopic analysis remain central to understanding disease, and morphologic changes are highlighted for ready reference. The strong emphasis on clinicopathologic correlations is maintained, and, wherever understood, the impact of molecular pathology on the practice of medicine is emphasized. We are pleased that all of this was accomplished with a 10% “thinning” of the text.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0050">We continue to firmly believe that clarity of writing and proper use of language enhance comprehension and facilitate the learning process. Those familiar with the previous editions will notice significant reorganization of the text in many chapters to improve the flow of information and make it more logical. We are in the digital age, so the text is available online along with 100 clinical cases with interactive features that are designed to be used as tutorials or self-study.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0055">It is a privilege for us to edit this book, and we realize the considerable trust placed in us by students and teachers of pathology. We remain acutely conscious of this responsibility and hope that this edition will be worthy of and enhance the tradition of its forebears.</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0060">VK</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0065">AKA</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0070">JCA</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0075">ATD</div>
<div class="para_indented" id="p0080">AD</div>
</section>
</body>
</html>
